In the segregation literature, the importance of *space* has long been recognized, but a full grasp
of its implications still eludes researchers. In this paper, we show that when considering the role
of transportation infrastructure in segregation measurement, we obtain substantially different
results than classic spatial approaches that adopt euclidean measurements.

<!-- extensions -->

In future work, this research could be extended in several directions

One promising direction is the consideration of alternative impedance measures when calculating
shortest-path distances along the travel network. In the present study, we assume a constant rate of
travel consistent with the average walking pace, and that impedance is reflected by graph distance
alone. Alternative constructs could include elevation along with distance to get a more complete
measure of the effort required to traverse by foot or bicycle. Similarly, the travel network could
also be extended to include public transportation or (potentially congested) automobile travel.
These considerations would require extensive additional data, which may limit the capacity for
cross-sectional comparisons, but would also provide insight into alternative concepts of space and
distance.

Another important avenue for further work is the blending of multiple graphs for a more complete
understanding of multi-contextual segregation. For example children who live in a given neighborhood
are simultaneously embedded in local neighborhood contexts, school catchment boundaries, and other
local institutions such as religious and community organizations. Each of these contexts have
partially-overlapping, occasionally nested, and often imperfectly-defined geographic boundaries, a
full synthesis of which requires the development of new methods that integrate across these contexts
[@galster2001NatureNeighbourhood;@galster2019making]. As one example, @wolf2021SpatiallyEncouraged
provides a technique for blending multiple graphs together, one spatial and one aspatial, and
similar methods could be possibly used to integrate multiple contexts. Work along these lines would
also help address the call by @reardon2004MeasuresSpatial [p. 156] for metrics that help understand
bridges across social networks

>It remains for spatial analysts to carefully specify spatial weights matrices so that they truly represent the phenomena being analyzed.[@getis2009SpatialWeights, p.409]